
"I want to congratulate the Karnataka BJP for the wonderful arrangements & giving the opportunity to talk to people of Karnataka: PM"
"The hopes with which you gave our team the opportunity to serve you, we will fulfill your hopes & aspirations. I assure you: PM"
"Our Niyat is clean. And we want to take the Nation ahead: PM"
"We consider the States equal partners in India's progress. Irrespective of what party the State Government is, all are equal for us: PM"
"मैं कर्नाटक भाजपा को अद्भुत व्यवस्था करने और कर्नाटक के लोगों से मुझे बात करने का अवसर देने के लिए बधाई देना चाहता हूँ: प्रधानमंत्री"
"जिन उम्मीदों के साथ आपने हमारे दल को आपकी सेवा करने का अवसर दिया है, हम आपकी आशाओं और आकांक्षाओं को पूरा करेंगे। मैं आपको विश्वास दिलाता हूं: प्रधानमंत्री"
"हमारी नियत साफ है। और हम इस देश को आगे ले जाना चाहते हैं: प्रधानमंत्री"
"हम भारत की प्रगति में राज्यों को बराबर का भागीदार मानते हैं। राज्य में किसकी सरकार है, यह मायने नहीं रखता, हमारे लिए सब बराबर हैं : प्रधानमंत्री"

On April 3rd, 2015, BJP’s two-day National Executive began in Bengaluru, Karnataka in presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Party President Shri Amit Shah and senior BJP leader Shri LK Advani. Later in the evening, Prime Minister Modi reached out to the masses through a public meeting in Bengaluru. He presented the vision of the BJP led NDA Government that is committed to overall development of India.

For years, the Prime Minister said that there was an atmosphere of disappointment. There was news of scams that made headlines in media. He further added, “The world had changed the way they saw India. It was as if India has lost the ability to script a new future, India has lost its way.” Shri Narendra Modi said that such perception existed in the minds of people for about a decade and ultimately the people reposed their faith in BJP. He assured that BJP led Government at the Centre would fulfil the hopes and aspirations of the people of India.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that it was time for India to rise and shine. “From my 10 month experience I can tell you there is no reason why India must stay behind”, said the PM. He said that the opposition always criticised the Government at Centre that whatever schemes were being implemented, those were their policies. Shri Narendra Modi countered them by saying that policies could be similar at times but the intentions of the BJP led NDA Government are stronger. “Yes Neeti can be same at times but Niyat is stronger, that is what matters. Unlike you, our Niyat is proper”, said Shri Modi in Bengaluru.
Shri Modi also noted that there were numerous projects that were stalled for years. But still the previous government claimed to be working fast, taking quick decisions. He also added, “When we would talk of coal during election time people mocked us, especially those in Government that time.” He referred to the CAG findings of the coal scam, the SC decision and how the Government proceeded with the auctions in a transparent manner.
The Prime Minister powerfully reaching out to the people made it clear that intention of the NDA Government was clean and they would take the nation ahead. He reposed belief on the people of the country. “From the smallest of things to the big issues we have immense faith in the people of India”, added PM Modi.

Talking about the Railway Budget, Shri Narendra Modi stated that it was different from all the Budgets that were presented in the past. He considered it to be budget presented with vision and motive for betterment of the Indian Railways.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi remarked that the Government was fully committed to realise the dream of Digital India. “We are giving importance to Digital India and are moving to mobile governance. Digital India enhances accountability”, Shri Narendra Modi added furthermore. Considering digital India to be a platform offering a number of opportunities for growth and development, Shri Modi said that it would be a key source of employment and entrepreneurship in the times to come.
Speaking on the 14th Finance Commission, the Prime Minister said, “We consider the States equal partners in India's progress. Irrespective of what party the State Government is, all are equal for us.” Shri Narendra Modi assumed that India’s progress was directly proportional with the states’ progress. From 14,000 crore to almost 25, 000 crore, Karnataka would be benefitted from the 14th Finance Commission, the PM noted.
Coming on to the agriculture sector, Prime Minster Narendra Modi took a note of the importance of modern equipments, infrastructure and technology upgradation. He said that growth of agriculture sector is requisite for the development of the villages as well as for the nation. “India will not progress till the villages’ progress and the villages will not progress till the farmers’ progress”, added the PM. Shri Modi noted the basic needs of the people in villages. Good roads, 24X7 power supply and proper irrigation techniques, he said were needed by the farming sector.
Prime Minster Shri Narendra Modi said India has a huge population of youth. Considering the country to be the youngest where a large fraction of people are under the age of 35 years, the PM said, “Our youth can become our Bhagya Vidhata. And that is why for them we have launched Make in India.” Resting faith in youth, he said they have the power to take India to greater heights.
He also touched upon the LPG subsidy and the MUDRA Bank and how it would benefit the people of the Nation.

The rally was attended by a number large of BJP dignitaries. Party President Shri Amit Shah, Shri LK Advani ji, Union Home Minister Shri Rajnath Singh, Union External Affairs Minister, Smt. Sushma Swaraj, Former Karnataka CM, Shri BS Yeddyurappa, Karnataka BJP President Shri Prahlad Joshi, Haryana CM, Shri ML Khattar, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister, Shri Shivraj Singh Chouhan and  Chhattisgarh CM, Dr. Raman Singh, Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje among several others.
 






