
We are proud of Sardar Patel's contribution to India before we attained freedom and during the early years after we became independent: PM
Few people tried to ensure the contribution of Sardar Patel is forgotten: PM Modi
India is proud of our diversity. We are home to so many cultures, languages, lifestyles: PM Modi

Victory to Mother India! 
Let Sardar Sahib be immortal! 
The young loved ones of Maha Bharati who have come here in large numbers, 
Today is 31st of October, the birthday of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel. 31st October is also commemorated as the death anniversary of former Prime Minister, Smt. Indira Gandhi ji. On the birth anniversary of the great Sardar Sahib, let us recall the efforts and the struggles of his life for the freedom of the country. After independence, this great man through his skill, struggles, strength and supreme devotion towards the nation had saved the country on several occasions of crises at a time when the country was on the verge of disintegration. He had not only steered the country out of problems at the time of Independence but also contributed significantly to consolidate the small princely kingdoms that wanted to secede from India after the British had left. He did not let the intensions of the British to eliminate the existence of India by dividing her into small states to succeed. This was the long term vision of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel that integrated the country into a single thread by using his diplomacy and strategies. No efforts were made to acquaint the new generation with Sardar vallabh Bhai Patel. Attempts have been made either to erase his name from the pages of history or to undermine his role. But history is witness to the fact that whether some political ideology or a political party gives him recognition or not, the young generation doesn't want to forget him. As a result, when the opportunity to serve came before us we commemorated the contributions made by that great personality in a special manner and will continue with it in every generation. Therefore, we have come up with this campaign - Run for Unity. I am glad that the young generation is participating in Run for Unity with great enthusiasm.
Once the country's first President, Dr. Rajendra Prasad, had said something which had compelled us to think. He had said -"Today, we have the name 'India' to refer to as our country. Today we have a country called 'India'. This was made possible only because of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel's statesmanship and tremendous hold on the administration." He had further said, "Despite this, we have forgotten Sardar Sahib." The first President of India had expressed this pain over forgetting Sardar Sahib's contributions. 

India is a nation full of diversities. We have time and again reiterated that the unique feature of our country is unity in diversity. This has been our mantra. But unless we acknowledge this speciality of our country and feel proud of it, this will remain just a slogan. We would not be able to use it for nation building. Every Indian can feel proud of the fact that India has embraced every cult of the world, every tradition and every ideology in some or the other form. It has a variety of dialects, dressing styles, food habits and beliefs. Despite this diversity we have learnt from our traditions to be united for the country for its welfare. Today, even the people from the same traditions and cultural backgrounds are intolerant towards one another and can even kill one another. In the 21st century some people are propagating violence in the world just to place one's beliefs as superior to the others'. On these occasions India can proudly say that we are that country, we are the Indians who respect every belief, tradition and culture of the world. This is our legacy and strength. This is our path of a bright future. This is our responsibility. No one can underestimate the love of a brother and a sister. For the brother and the sister to sacrifice for each other is a natural tendency. Yet, in order to preserve the sanctity of this ritual, we celebrate Raksha-Bandhan. We try to enhance the relationship of the brother and the sister every year. Similarly, despite the country's unity it is necessary to reinforce the nation's cultural heritage. It is necessary to recall the Mantra of Unity again and again. It is essential to remember the pledge for the unity of the country again and again.
The country is vast. Generations keep changing. Not every incident of history is known. Therefore, it is necessary to echo the mantra of unity and search for the path to unity in a country with so much diversity. Our country should remain one and united. It's the responsibility of 125 crore Indians to secure the unity and integrity of the country given to us by Sardar Sahib. Therefore we should think about Sardar Patel by reminding ourselves of his contribution to the country's unity. Every generation should know the way he had integrated the country. Today, on 31st October, we are celebrating the birth anniversary of Sardar Sahib. Eight years later we will be celebrating 150th birth anniversary of Sardar Sahib. What new example of Unity shall we set on the completion of 150th birth anniversary of Sardar Sahib? How can we promote this feeling of Unity within the people? We will have to move ahead with these resolutions. 

The year 2022 will mark 75 years of independence. Innumerable patriots such as Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Mahatma Gandhi and Sardar Patel had lived and died for the country. By the year 2022 when 75 years of independence will be completed we should take a resolution in our hearts as well as try to fulfil that resolution. Every Indian should have a resolution. Every Indian should make great efforts to fulfil those resolutions. That resolution should be for the welfare of the society, of the country and for enhancing the country's pride. We should associate ourselves with such a resolution. I believe that the need of the hour is to take a resolution today on the birth anniversary of the great freedom fighter Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel for the year 2022.
You all have come in large numbers and got involved with this event enthusiastically. All the youngsters across the country also are associated with it. I urge you all to take an oath on Rashtriya Ekta Diwas. Remembering Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, let us take an oath which I am presenting before you and you will repeat after me with a resolution inside your minds. You will repeat after me by putting forward your right hand: “I solemnly affirm that I will dedicate myself to maintain the unity, integrity and sovereignty of the country and will also put all my efforts to spread this message among my countrymen. I take this pledge in the spirit of unity of my country which could be made possible by the foresightedness and the contribution of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. I sincerely take the pledge to make my contribution to ensure the internal security of my country.”
Victory to Mother India!
Victory to Mother India!
Victory to Mother India!
Thanks a lot! 






