
In India's Make in India mission, Sweden has been a strong partner since its inception: PM
Innovation, Investment, Start-ups, Manufacturing etc. are our main dimensions of partnership (with Sweden): PM Modi
Sweden has been India's partner for a long time in the defense sector: PM Modi
We have decided to strengthen our security cooperation, especially cyber security cooperation (with Sweden): PM Modi

Your Excellency, Prime Minister Stefan Lofven,
Friends from Media!
This is my first visit to Sweden.The Prime Minister of India is visiting Sweden after a gap of nearly three decades.I express my heartfelt gratitude to Prime Minister Lofven and the Swedish government for our warm reception and honor in Sweden.During this visit, Prime Minister Lofven has organized India's Summit along with other Nordic countries. I also express my heartfelt gratitude for this.



In India's Make in India mission, Sweden has been a strong partner since its inception. In 2016, in the Make in India program in Mumbai, Prime Minister Lofven himself participated with a very big Business Delegation.The most prominent program of Make in India outside India was also held in Sweden in October last year. It is a matter of great happiness and pride for us that Prime Minister Mr. Lofven himself participated in it.I believe that the most prominent theme in our conversation today was how Sweden can do a win-win partnership with India under the opportunities created by India's development.As a result, today we have agreed on an Innovation Partnership and Joint Action Plan.
Innovation, Investment, Start-ups, Manufacturing etc. are our main dimensions of partnership.With them, we are also focusing on many topics like renewable energy, urban transport, waste management, which are the topics related to the quality of life of the people of India.On topics related to trade and investment today, Prime Minister Lofven and I will also discuss with Sweden's leading CEOs.



Another key pillar of our bilateral relations is our defense and security cooperation.Sweden has been India's partner for a long time in the defense sector. And I believe that in the future, in this area, especially in defense production, many new opportunities will be created for our cooperation.
We have decided to strengthen our security cooperation, especially cyber security cooperation.We agree on one thing, it is that the importance of our relations are also at the regional and global stage.We have very close cooperation on the international stage, and will continue even further.
Today we have exchanged views in detail about the developments taking place in Europe and Asia.
In the end, I would once again like to thank Prime Minister Lofvenfrom my heart.
Thank you very much.




यह मेरी स्वीडन की पहली यात्रा है। भारत के प्रधानमंत्री की स्वीडन यात्रा लगभग तीन दशकों के अंतराल के बाद हो रही है: PM @narendramodi at the Joint Press Meet with @SwedishPM Stefan Löfven pic.twitter.com/5WNzoLqZaT
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 17, 2018




भारत के @makeinindia में स्वीडन शुरू से ही मजबूत भागीदार रहा है। 2016 में मुंबई में हमारे 'Make In India' कार्यक्रम में प्रधानमंत्री लवैन स्वयं बहुत बड़े business delegation के साथ शामिल हुए थे: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/bB5WH7cTM9
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 17, 2018




आज की हमारी बातचीत में सबसे प्रमुख थीम यही थी कि भारत के विकास से बन रहे अवसरों में स्वीडन किस प्रकार भारत के साथ 'win-win partnership' कर सकता है। इसके परिणामस्वरूप आज हमने एक Innovation Partnership और Joint Action Plan पर सहमति की है: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/Hg7It6YJyi
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 17, 2018




हम renewable energy, urban transport, waste management जैसे विषयों पर भी ध्यान दे रहे हैं, जो भारत के लोगों की quality of life से जुड़े विषय हैं: PM @narendramodi during talks with @SwedishPM Mr. Stefan Löfven pic.twitter.com/O7N7xL1BQC
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 17, 2018




Trade और Investment से जुड़े विषयों पर आज प्रधानमंत्री लवैन और मैं स्वीडन के प्रमुख CEOs के साथ मिल कर भी चर्चा करेंगे: PM @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/F731HNKCcu
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) April 17, 2018


 






