
Let us view our diaspora not only in terms of 'Sankhya' but let us see it as 'Shakti' : PM Modi
Pravasi Bharatiya Kendra shows what it means to be Indian, the meaning of association with India: PM Modi
World's keenness to engage with India has risen. Our diaspora can play a vital role in furthering India's engagement with the world: PM
Indian community all over the world is a strength that can convert brain drain to brain gain: PM Modi
In the last two years, our Government has rescued people from conflict situations, not just Indians but also foreigners: PM

The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today inaugurated the Pravasi Bharatiya Kendra in New Delhi.
Speaking on the occasion, he said that the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri was an apt occasion for such an event. He said Mahatma Gandhi had left India, but the call of the nation brought him back.

He said the Indian diaspora should be looked at, not just in terms of its numbers, but also in terms of its strength. He said that for years the term “brain drain” has been in vogue. But if we look at the diaspora as our strength we can convert it this to “brain gain.”

The Prime Minister said that at a time when the world is keen to engage with India, the “fear of the unknown” can be the biggest obstacle, which the Indian diaspora can help overcome.
Emphasizing the importance of connecting with the diaspora, he said former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had initiated the concept of the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas, which has been continued by successive governments.

The Prime Minister said that India, and especially the Ministry of External Affairs, has done significant humanitarian work in the last two years. He noted how not just Indians, but citizens of many other countries have been rescued from conflict and disaster situations.

The Prime Minister said that India has never attacked another nation. He recalled the sacrifices made by Indian soldiers protecting foreign lands in the two world wars, and added that the world must recognize this sacrifice.
On the occasion, the Prime Minister also visited the exhibition on “Gandhi – Ek Pravasi.” He launched a booklet on Yoga Protocol for Diabetes control, and distributed prizes to winners of the ‘Know India’ Quiz.












We are inaugurating this Kendra on a significant day- 2nd October. Gandhi JI had left India but the call of the nation brought him back: PM
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 2, 2016


Let us view our diaspora not only in terms of 'Sankhya' but let us see it as 'Shakti.' : PM @narendramodi
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 2, 2016


World's keenness to engage with India has risen. In such times 'fear of unknown' can be an obstacle. Our diaspora can help overcome this: PM
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 2, 2016


Connecting with the diaspora is essential. Atal Ji started idea of PBD and it has been continued thereafter: PM @narendramodi
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 2, 2016

PM: In the last two years you have seen how the Government has rescued people from conflict situations, not just Indians but also foreigners
— Vikas Swarup (@MEAIndia) October 2, 2016


Through Yoga, can we overcome diabetes? Or control diabetes. Had spoken about it during the 2016 Yoga Day also: PM @narendramodi
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) October 2, 2016


Click here to read full text speech 






