
"PM Modi speaks to the BJP MPs at a workshop"
"We want the purchasing power of the villages to increase: PM Modi"
"PM Modi praises the efforts of Ministers and Indian forces during ‘Operation Rahat’"
"Shri Modi highlights the success of ‘Operation Rahat’"
"प्रधानमंत्री मोदी ने एक कार्यशाला में भाजपा सांसदों को संबोधित किया"
"हम चाहते हैं कि गांव के लोगों की क्रय शक्ति बढ़े: प्रधानमंत्री मोदी"
"प्रधानमंत्री मोदी ने ‘ऑपरेशन राहत’ के दौरान मंत्रियों और भारतीय सेना के प्रयासों की प्रशंसा की"
"श्री मोदी ने ‘ऑपरेशन राहत’ की सफलता का वर्णन किया"

On Sunday, April 19, 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed all the BJP MPs. Speaking at the workshop, he highlighted the achievements of the Government. Stressing on the poor and neo-middle class the PM highlighted the efforts being taken by the government for their upliftment.
He expressed the Government’s desire to increase the purchasing power of the people living in villages. Shri Modi said, “We want the purchasing power of the villages to increase.” Presenting a clear road map, he said that the government was committed for betterment o the common people. “Our road is very clear- we are working on those things that benefit the common people”, added the PM.
Shri Narendra Modi noted how the world was looking toward India positively. He emphasized on how his recent visits to France, Germany and Canada helped to bolster their relations with India, both economically and strategically. He further added, “We are scaling new heights of development and we are not doing this to appear on TV and newspapers. We are living for the poor.”
Noting that ‘Operation Rahat’ was the biggest rescue operation ever, Shri Modi praised the efforts of Minister of Development of North Eastern Region, General V K Singh who himself stood with the Indian forces at ground zero to rescue stranded people from war-torn Yemen. He highlighted how India helped people from about 26 nations. Shri Modi also hailed Minister Minister of External Affairs, Smt. Sushma Swaraj who was constantly taking updates from the people stranded in Yemen via twitter. 






