

Respected  family members of Dinkar ji and the literature loving brothers and sisters.
It is a privilege for me to participate as a worshipper on the occasion of the prayers for “Shabd Brahm” (The divine). In our culture, the ‘Shabd’ is treated as ‘Brahm’ (God). Its capacity is as powerful as the almighty God.
The celebration of the 50 years of literary journey of Dinkar jee is not merely due to the fact that 50 years have elapsed. Even after 50 years, his creative works continue to be a source of inspiration for us and for the future generations alike. They view it with the same reverence and that is how it is worth all the respect.
Those creating literature are known as litterateur because literature is a passion for them. In the real sense, they are like saints. Whatever we have read about the sages in the Vedas and the Upanishads, they represent the same era. They are visionaries, observe the society closely,  weigh its various dimensions, mould the viewpoints and help us find a solution.
Dinkar ji’s entire literature is associated with the farmers and their livelihood. It is about the poor and the villages. The creations find an audience, sometimes it touches the heart of the young, the elderly, men, women, sometimes a specific land area or a specific incident. Some of his creations have the ability to reach everyone from young to the old. They can relate to the past, present and the future. They touch the lives of not just those who read them but they resonate with the future generations as well. Such is the power of the writings of Dinkar Ji.
Jai Prakash Narayan ji who revolutionized India was much older as compared to the young generation, and Dinkar ji’s poems were like as a bridge between the two. Everyone is aware that that in the fight against corruption, the poems of Dinkarji which Prasoon ji just sang, would inspire the youth and awaken the country. He would not let the society be a mute spectator. Not only this , he won’t sleep in peace, as long as the society slept. He wanted to keep the society alert by awakening its conscience and by revolutionizing its spirit. He did not find freedom in mere self expression. He wanted that the flame inside him should spread everywhere, but he did not visualize it as a destructive force capable of burning everything, but as an inspirational light that would guide the future generations. This is a rarity.
I am a worshipper of Goddess Saraswati and hence I am able to experience the power of the spoken word. I know how some words can be so powerful so as to change the course of lives and I can very well feel that strength within me. As a worshipper and a priest I know that Dinkar Ji has given us an invaluable gift and we will have to see how we take it forward to future generations.
I sometimes feel that in our country there might be thousands of poets and lovers of literature in every generation. I believe that there might be literature lover in thousands who might be reciting Dinkar ji’s creations by heart. This by no means is a small achievement. Some people recite the shlokas from Ramayana, Mahabharata, Vedas and Upanishads. Similarly there might be others who would be orally reciting Dinkar ji’s words. They might be finding pleasure in the same, in lending voice to Dinkar ji’s creations. They might be thinking that people may or may not hear me but the world will definitely hear Dinkar Ji.
Dinkar Ji created “Parshuram Ki Pratiksha. His creations had inputs from history as well as cultural sensitivities, the greatness demonstrated by India at various points and the capacity to imbibe everything. The way Dinkar Ji experienced it is reflected time and again through his creations. And this way we can open insightful windows through his literature into an understanding of India. If we have the potential we can open doors too.  But if there is no potential, we can at least open the windows. Dinkar ji has laid the foundation of such a potential amongst us.
Dinkar ji told us a few things but perhaps we like to forget them, and people forget them. Time and again, some vices creep into the society. They are different every time. Someone tried once to be close to Dinkar ji citing that he belonged to the same caste. He wanted Dinkar ji to support him. This happens many a times in the society. But in such situations too, how apt was his thinking, we get a glimpse of it, otherwise most people fall prey to such things. Dinkar Ji was member of the Rajya Sabha and had a chance to both view and experience politics closely, yet he kept himself aloof from such an environment.  He wrote a letter to the gentleman in 1961 that  the only way out to improve the situation in Bihar is that people should forget their caste and come together to respect the merit.  Remember the state does not run on the support of one or two castes. It requires the support of many, and if we fail to rise above casteism then the social fabric of Bihar will rot. The  letter written in 1961, till date gives such an inspirational message for Bihar. These are not the words of a person in politics nor are they the words of a poet or literary person. They are the words of a saint like man who could pre empt the future and who was worried about Bihar’s future. And that is why his words had the power to clearly indicate his intentions to the people of his society.
If Bihar has to move forward, if Bihar has to move ahead, then realize one thing, unless the eastern end of India develops, India cannot surge ahead. The western end however rich it is, cannot make a difference until the eastern end of India joins the road to development. Our motherland cannot realize its true potential till then.  It is our dream that the eastern end becomes equal to the western end and there is no reason why it cannot do so. If Bihar, Bengal, Assam, North Eastern states all rise and move forward then the world will watch in amazement, the progress made by India.
Dinkar Ji also had dreamt of the development of Bihar. Bihar should be glorious, progressive and prosperous. Bihar may earn its own glory and pride and not borrow it from someone else. It has the potential; it just needs opportunities to become prosperous. Bihar has the strength, which given a chance it can leave everyone behind in the race.
We are committed to fulfill Dinkar Ji’s dream. The journey of 50 years of his creations still inspires us to do something, not merely recite his verses. It inspires us to achieve something, so today, in this auditorium, remembering his literary creations, we should see this as an opportunity to recommit ourselves. May his blessings remain with us so that we may fulfill our commitments and move forward to the realization of the dreams of Bihar?
With these expectations I would like to thank you all for giving me the opportunity to be with you, to meet the family members. I consider myself very fortunate.
Thank you. 






