
There should be no politics on the issue as it relates to the rights of Muslim women, the Bill could not be passed: PM
Let us think about the well-being of rural India, our farmers, Dalits, tribal communities, Mazdoors: PM Modi
The budget 2018 will add new vigour to India’s development and will fulfil aspirations of people, says PM Modi

Namaskar Friends. The Budget Session of the parliament gets under way today. This session begins with the address of the President. In the last session it was our effort and the nation had high hopes that there won’t be any politics on crucial issues like Triple talaq so that the Muslim women will get their rights. However, despite the orders of the Supreme Court, the bill on triple talaq could not be passed by the Parliament. I hope and appeal to the political parties across the country to join hands in passing the triple talaq bill to protect the rights of Muslim women. It will indeed be the best gift of 2018, in the new year for the Muslim women.

Budget Session is very important. Entire global community is very much optimistic about the Indian economy. It comes at a time when the world is looking at us, be it the Global Credit rating agencies, World Bank, IMF which have been very positive in their opinion about the growth of India and the road ahead. This Budget will provide a new energy to the fast growing economy of the country. It will be fulfilling the hopes and aspirations of the common man. A month after the Budget session, various committees deliberate upon the details of the Budget proposals. The past experience shows that in those deliberations the national interest is above the political interests. Cutting across party line even the MPs from the ruling party highlights its short comings while the members of opposition highlight its salient feature. In a way it provides for a healthy environment and atmosphere for debate and discussion.  In the all party meeting yesterday I have urged that we should take maximum help of the debate in the committees and to ensure that how we can ensure that the common man is benefited most from the Budget. Our objective should be to reach out to the dalits, oppressed, underprivileged and to those who did not have any access to these benefits. We also need to see how the villagers, poor, farmers and laborers are benefited maximum from the Budget. Let’s have a detailed discussion, come out with positive suggestions and make a road map to march ahead.

I make a humble request to all parties that we can pass the bill on Triple Talaq. We have to pass this bill and protect the Muslim women: PM @narendramodi
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2018


This budget session is important. The world is extremely optimistic about India. The budget will add new vigour to India’s development and will fulfil aspirations of people: PM @narendramodi
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2018


We should make most use of our healthy system of parliamentary committees and discuss aspects of the budget. Let us think about the well-being of rural India, our farmers, Dalits, tribal communities, Mazdoors: PM @narendramodi
— PMO India (@PMOIndia) January 29, 2018
 






